in this lab they're taking the use of
human technology another step forward
the Audubon Institute in New Orleans
leads the field in cryobiology
using super freezing methods to preserve
the sperm embryos and DNA from rare
animals pioneering this research is dr.
Betsy dresser she's holding a single
antelope embryo the containers all
around her could hold the whole of the
Serengeti preserved for hundreds maybe
thousands of years this is a frozen zoo
if we carry on destroying natural
habitats the way we are pretty soon for
some endangered species these containers
could be the only habitat they have left
creating a frozen zoo is extremely
difficult the embryos have to be made in
a test-tube what we call IVF in vitro
fertilization to do this you need to
collect both sperm and eggs today
they're preparing a clouded leopard for
surgery she's had hormone treatment to
stimulate egg production and she's now
going to have some of her eggs removed
dr. dresser is convinced that this is
the only way forward is is kind of the
emergency room of the wildlife business
you know it's very high-tech research
that we need to do to save these species
if a woman was going for IVF is it the
same kind of treatment that woman would
have yeah it's very similar actually
collection has done very much like what
what we're doing at the state-of-the-art
labs the team is made up of top
veterinary scientists and experts in
human ivf treatment how long do you
think planted leopard has if no one does
any of this way this cat may only have
another 5-10 years in the wild if we
don't do something about it
what you're seeing on the screen is the
inside of a clouded leopard tummy we're
on the search for clouded leopard eggs
so what exactly are we saying there well
you're starting to see some internal
organs the gut and what we need is over
it ovaries right we need to find the
uterus and in the ovaries once they're
located it takes immense skill to remove
the microscopic eggs from the Leopards
ovaries and how many do you think we'll
get you know and it's really difficult
to tell maybe ten maybe more and each of
those eggs that we find today could be a
potential Leopard kitten
yeah the beginning of wife
so here is the start of life an IVF life
when sperm is put with the egg to create
an embryo the next step in frozen zoo
technology is learning how to freeze and
successfully thaw the embryos and sperm
every species is different and each
stage of the process can take years to
perfect
but already they've had success and I
was in for a real treat
Betsy had some new IVF babies to show me
these are the world's first test-tube
caracal cats
Wow this is what we're in the business
for